src/CAIDA/BGPStreamWeb/HomepageBundle/Resources/content/docs/tutorials.md, before:

Tutorials
=========

To help users get started with BGPStream, we provide several tutorials for each
[component]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage', {'page': 'components'})}}).

<div class="row" markdown="1">
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
BGPReader
---------
 - [Replace BGPdump with BGPReader]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#dump2reader)
 - [Isolate data using filters]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#elemfilters)
 - [Realtime stream from RIS Live]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#ris-live)
 - [Read a local file]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#other)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}"
    class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
    Take the BGPReader tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
libBGPStream
------------
 - [Get familiar with the API: count the BGP elems]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'libbgpstream'})}}#api1)
 - [Prefix monitoring]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'libbgpstream'})}}#api2)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'libbgpstream'})}}"
     class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
     Take the libBGPStream tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class="row" markdown="1">
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
PyBGPStream
-----------
 - [Get familiar with the API]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#print)
 - [Print the MOAS prefixes]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#moas)
 - [Measuring the extent of AS path inflation]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#aspath)
 - [Studying the communities]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#communities)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}"
      class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
      Take the PyBGPStream tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
BGPStream Docker
-----------
 - [Run bgpreader directly using Docker image]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'docker'})}}#bgpreader)
 - [Build/test BGPStream application within Docker]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'docker'})}}#app)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'docker'})}}"
      class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
      Take the BGPStream Docker tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
</div>

Commit message:

update bgpreader tutorial for live-streams

src/CAIDA/BGPStreamWeb/HomepageBundle/Resources/content/docs/tutorials.md, after:

Tutorials
=========

To help users get started with BGPStream, we provide several tutorials for each
[component]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage', {'page': 'components'})}}).

<div class="row" markdown="1">
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
BGPReader
---------
 - [Replace BGPdump with BGPReader]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#dump2reader)
 - [Isolate data using filters]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#elemfilters)
 - [Realtime streams from RouteViews and RIPE RIS]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#live-streams)
 - [Read a local file]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}#other)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}}"
    class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
    Take the BGPReader tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
libBGPStream
------------
 - [Get familiar with the API: count the BGP elems]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'libbgpstream'})}}#api1)
 - [Prefix monitoring]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'libbgpstream'})}}#api2)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'libbgpstream'})}}"
     class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
     Take the libBGPStream tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
</div>
<div class="row" markdown="1">
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
PyBGPStream
-----------
 - [Get familiar with the API]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#print)
 - [Print the MOAS prefixes]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#moas)
 - [Measuring the extent of AS path inflation]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#aspath)
 - [Studying the communities]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#communities)
 - [Accessing realtime streams]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}#live-streams)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'pybgpstream'})}}"
      class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
      Take the PyBGPStream tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">
BGPStream Docker
-----------
 - [Run bgpreader directly using Docker image]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'docker'})}}#bgpreader)
 - [Build/test BGPStream application within Docker]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'docker'})}}#app)
 
<a href="{{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tutorials', 'subpage': 'docker'})}}"
      class="btn btn-primary btn-md">
      Take the BGPStream Docker tutorial &raquo;
</a>
</div>
</div>
