src/CAIDA/BGPStreamWeb/HomepageBundle/Resources/content/docs/tutorials/bgpreader.md, before:

BGPReader Tutorial
==================

BGPReader is a command-line tool (_bgpreader_) that is installed as part of the
[libBGPStream]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'install', 'subpage': 'bgpstream'})}})
package.
See the
[BGPReader documentation]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tools', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}})
for detailed usage information.

The most commonly used command-line options are:
~~~
bgpreader -w <start>[,<stop>] [-p <project>] [-t <type>] [-c <collector>] [-T <resource-type>] [-m]
~~~

<br>

Below we provide the following tutorials:

* [Replace bgpdump with bgpreader](#dump2reader)
* [1 second of Route Views Linx updates using the bgpdump format](#sample1sec)
* [BGP Stream elems observed by RIS collectors updates in 2 minutes](#sample2min)
* [BGP Stream elems with filters](#elemfilters)
* [RRC00 in real-time](#samplert)
* [BGPStream with Cache](#cache)
* [Realtime Stream from RIS Live](#ris-live)
* [Realtime Stream from CAIDA BMP](#bmp)
* [A day of RIS RRC04 and RRC05 BGP records](#sampleday)
* [Other data interfaces: how to use singlefile](#other)


<br>

## Replace bgpdump with bgpreader  ##  {% verbatim %}{#dump2reader}{% endverbatim %}

BGPReader can output data in the same format as BGPdump (using the `-m` option).
In this way, bgpreader can be used as a drop-in replacement for bgpdump in some
cases.

{# AK removed second collector since bgpdump format doesn't support multiple collectors #}

Suppose you want to process all the BGP information associated with
BGP records  generated by _RIS RRC04_
in the _20_ minute time interval:  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 15:50:00
UTC_ to  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 16:10:00 UTC_.

In this example, when using _bgpdump_ the user must download each dump file
within the time interval desired (6 files). A hypothetical processing script,
_my_script.pl_ receives an unsorted flow of data, also, it also implements
some filter in order to ignore the data that are outside the desired interval.

~~~
$ cd raw-data
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/bview.20151010.1600.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1610.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1605.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1600.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1555.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1550.gz
$ cd ..
$ find ./raw-data/ -type f | xargs -n 1 | bgpdump -m  | perl my_script.pl
~~~

<br>

With _bgpreader_ the same operation is accomplished with a single
command. The processing script, _my_script.pl_ receives a sorted
flow of data that contains only the information associated with the
desired time interval. 

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444492200,1444493400 -c rrc04  -m | perl my_script.pl
~~~

<br>

## 1 second of Route Views Linx updates using the bgpdump format {% verbatim %}{#sample1sec}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs (using the bgpdump `-m` format) the BGPStream
elems contained in the BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _Updates dumps_ generated by the _Route Views
   LINX collector_
 * their timestamp is exactly  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 17:34:02 UTC_ 


~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444498442,1444498442 -c route-views.linx -m
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.224.175|13030|46.219.122.0/24|13030 5580 21011 31148 31148 31148|IGP|195.66.224.175|0|1|65123:276 65123:2000 65123:2002 65123:10016 13030:1 13030:7208 13030:50000 13030:51107|AG|31148 94.76.105.10|
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|209.212.8.0/24
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|205.151.210.0/23
...
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.236.175|13030|118.193.51.0/24|13030 2828 10026 17444 17444 133115|IGP|195.66.236.175|0|1|13030:2 13030:2828 13030:51903 13030:7215|NAG||
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.236.175|13030|177.154.84.0/22|13030 12989 28640 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262949|IGP|195.66.236.175|0|1|13030:1 13030:3 13030:50000 13030:51502 13030:7209|NAG||
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.236.175|13030|177.154.80.0/22|13030 12989 28640 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262949|IGP|195.66.236.175|0|1|13030:1 13030:3 13030:50000 13030:51502 13030:7209|NAG||
~~~

<br>

The above command outputs 114 announcements, and 11 withdrawals as observed by
14 unique peer ASns.

<br>

## BGP Stream elems observed by RIS collectors updates in 2 minutes {% verbatim %}{#sample2min}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _Updates dumps_ generated by _RIS collectors_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 17:34:00 UTC_ -  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 17:36:00 UTC_

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444498440,1444498560 -p ris -t updates
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||7018|12.0.1.63|43.224.84.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 1299 15412 9304 132167|132167|7018:5000 7018:38000||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||7018|12.0.1.63|43.224.85.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 1299 15412 9304 132167|132167|7018:5000 7018:38000||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||8758|2001:8e0:0:ffff::9|2801:80:e90::/48|2001:8e0:0:ffff::9|8758 8758 6939 3549 18881 264583|264583|8758:200 8758:301||
...
U|W|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||50300|2a00:1c10:10::8|2801:80:e90::/48||||||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||57821|2001:67c:26f4::1|2801:80:e90::/48|2001:67c:26f4::1|57821 6939 3549 18881 264583|264583|||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||1836|146.228.1.3|177.154.80.0/22|146.228.1.3|1836 12989 52840 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949|262949|1836:120 1836:3100 1836:3110||
~~~

<br>

The above command outputs 181,118 announcements, 151 state messages,
and 7,882 withdrawals as observed by 13 collectors (and 209 unique
peer ASns).


<br>

## BGP Stream elems with filters {% verbatim %}{#elemfilters}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _Updates dumps_ generated by _rrc06_ or _route-views.jinx_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Wed, 01 Apr 2015 00:07:27
 UTC_ -  _Wed, 01 Apr 2015 00:07:54 UTC_
 * the peer ASn is either _25152_ or _37105_
 * if the message is an announcement, then 
   * the announced prefix  is equal or a more specific of
   _2620:110:9004::/40_, _154.73.128.0/17_, or _202.70.88.0/21_
   * at least one community matches one of the following filters _2914:*_
     (the ASn field is equal to 2914), or _*:300_ (the value field is
     equal to 300).


~~~
$ bgpreader  -t updates -c rrc06 -c route-views.jinx -w1427846847,1427846874 -j 25152 -j 37105 -k 2620:110:9004::/40 -k 154.73.128.0/17 -k 202.70.88.0/21 -y 2914:* -y *:300
U|A|1427846850.000000|ris|rrc06|||25152|202.249.2.185|202.70.88.0/21|202.249.2.185|25152 2914 15412 9304 23752|23752|2914:410 2914:1408 2914:2401 2914:3400||
U|A|1427846860.000000|ris|rrc06|||25152|202.249.2.185|202.70.88.0/21|202.249.2.185|25152 2914 15412 9304 23752|23752|2914:410 2914:1408 2914:2401 2914:3400||
U|A|1427846871.000000|ris|rrc06|||25152|2001:200:0:fe00::6249:0|2620:110:9004::/48|2001:200:0:fe00::6249:0|25152 2914 3356 13620|13620|2914:420 2914:1001 2914:2000 2914:3000||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.136.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.137.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.138.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.139.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
~~~

<br>


## RRC00 in real-time {% verbatim %}{#samplert}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _RIBs_ and _ Updates dumps_ generated by the _RIS RRC00 collector_
 * their timestamp is greater or equal to _Sat, 15 Oct 2015 17:12:00 UTC_ 

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444929120 -c rrc00 
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|1836|2a01:2a8::3|2c0f:fe90::/32|2a01:2a8::3|1836 174 6453 30844 37105 37105 37105 36943|36943|1836:110 1836:6000 1836:6031||
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|1836|2a01:2a8::3|2c0f:fe90::/32|2a01:2a8::3|1836 6939 30844 37105 37105 37105 36943|36943|1836:3200 1836:3210||
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|1836|146.228.1.3|168.128.104.0/21|146.228.1.3|1836 3356 2914 44568 44568|44568|1836:110 1836:6000 1836:6001 2914:410 2914:1203 2914:2201 2914:3200 3356:2 3356:22 3356:86 3356:502 3356:666 3356:2066||
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|8758|212.25.27.44|62.112.24.0/21|212.25.27.44|8758 8220 47377|47377|8220:65080 8220:65401 8758:110 8758:300||
...
~~~

<br>

## BGPStream with Local Cache {% verbatim %}{#cache}{% endverbatim %}

BGPStream version 2 added support for local caching. Users can provide a cache directory to BGPStream,
and BGPStream will use the directory to save resources used in the query.
In BGPReader, you can enable cache feature by specifying a cache directory using
`-o cache-dir=DIRECTORY` option.

The following command put cached files to `/tmp/cache-test/` for a query of updates:
```
$ bgpreader -w 1444498442,1444498442 -c route-views.linx -m -o cache-dir=/tmp/cache-test
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.224.175|13030|46.219.122.0/24|13030 5580 21011 31148 31148 31148|IGP|195.66.224.175|0|1|65123:276 65123:2000 65123:2002 65123:10016 13030:1 13030:7208 13030:50000 13030:51107|AG|31148 94.76.105.10|
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|209.212.8.0/24
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|205.151.210.0/23
...
```
This command will cache the following files at `/tmp/cache-test`:
```
$ ls -l /tmp/cache-test
total 6144
drwxr-xr-x   3 USER  GROUP       96 Oct 18 12:51 ./
drwxrwxrwt  33 root  GROUP     1056 Oct 18 12:51 ../
-rw-r--r--   1 USER  GROUP  2466076 Oct 18 12:51 routeviews.route-views.linx.updates.1444498200.900.cache
```

The next time an query using the same resource will directly use the locally cached files instead of
re-downloading from remote locations.

<br>

{#
<br>
## A day of RIS RRC04 and RRC05 BGP records {% verbatim %}{#sampleday}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs information about the BGPStream records that
comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _RIBs_ and _ Updates dumps_ generated by
   the _RIS RRC04_ and _RIS RRC05 collectors_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 00:00:00  UTC_ -  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 23:59:59 UTC_

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444435200,1444521599 -c rrc04 -c rrc05 -r
U|E|1444434900|ris|rrc05|F|1444434900
R|B|1444435200|ris|rrc05|V|1444435200
R|B|1444435200|ris|rrc04|V|1444435200
R|M|1444435200|ris|rrc05|V|1444435200
...
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
~~~
<br>

The above command outputs information about 3,524,048 BGPStream
records of type rib and 4,384,306 BGPStream records of type update.
#}

<br/>
## Realtime Live Stream from RIS Live {% verbatim %}{#ris-live}{% endverbatim %}

RIPE NCC provides live-stream data, i.e. [RIS Live](https://ris-live.ripe.net/). 
In BGPStream version 2, we added support for RIS Live data stream. 
The following command will start a real-time live stream from RIS Live.
~~~
$ bgpreader -p ris-live
WARN: No time window specified, defaulting to live mode
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||28186|187.16.219.51|209.177.171.0/24|187.16.219.51|28186 3549 3356 1299 18465|18465|||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||28186|2001:12f8::219:51|2c0f:fe30::/32|2001:12f8::219:51|28186 30844 37006|37006|||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|187.16.216.121|185.26.216.0/23|187.16.216.121|42473 16735 3257 28917 48858 39785 39785|39785|16735:3 16735:6101 47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|2001:12f8::121|2404:5780:3::/48|2001:12f8::121|42473 16735 6939 2914 20473 9558|9558|47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|187.16.216.121|185.26.216.0/23|187.16.216.121|42473 16735 1299 48858 39785 39785|39785|16735:3 16735:6101 47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|187.16.216.121|209.177.171.0/24|187.16.216.121|42473 16735 174 1299 18465|18465|16735:3 16735:6101 47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.680000|ris-live|rrc07|||6667|194.68.123.136|177.136.12.0/24|194.68.123.136|6667 3491 7738 52871|52871|6667:3001 6667:4004 6667:5209||
U|A|1569948264.680000|ris-live|rrc07|||6667|2001:7f8:d:ff::136|2404:5780:3::/48|2001:7f8:d:ff::136|6667 174 20473 9558|9558|174:21001 174:22013 6667:3004 6667:4005 6667:5009 6667:6000||
U|A|1569948264.680000|ris-live|rrc07|||6667|194.68.123.136|185.137.56.0/22|194.68.123.136|6667 29119|29119|6667:3001 6667:4004 6667:5209||
...
~~~

<br/>
## Realtime Live Stream from CAIDA Public BMP Feed {% verbatim %}{#bmp}{% endverbatim %}

In BGPStream version 2, we added support for streaming from BMP source. 
Currently, CAIDA provides a public BMP stream, and you can access it by
~~~
$ bgpreader -p caida
WARN: No time window specified, defaulting to live mode
U|A|1571427802.802131|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|7018|12.0.1.63|202.70.88.0/21|12.0.1.63|7018 6453 23752|23752|7018:5000 7018:31023||
U|A|1571427803.349627|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|7018|12.0.1.63|103.116.164.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 3491 9498 10075 136224 136224 136224 137889|137889|7018:5000 7018:37232||
U|A|1571427803.448261|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|7018|12.0.1.63|202.70.88.0/21|12.0.1.63|7018 2914 9498 23752|23752|7018:5000 7018:31023||
U|W|1571427803.448473|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|6939|2001:470:0:1a::1|2404:5780:3::/48||||||
U|A|1571427803.596304|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|7018|12.0.1.63|202.70.88.0/21|12.0.1.63|7018 3491 9498 23752|23752|7018:5000 7018:37232||
U|A|1571427803.793456|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|6939|2001:470:0:1a::1|2404:5780:3::/48|2001:470:0:1a::1|6939 3356 20473 20473 9558|9558|||
U|A|1571427803.891382|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|7018|12.0.1.63|8.39.125.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 6453 13335|13335|7018:5000 7018:37232||
U|A|1571427803.891382|caida|bmp.bgpstream.caida.org|route-views.routeviews.org|128.223.51.103|7018|12.0.1.63|162.158.25.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 6453 13335|13335|7018:5000 7018:37232||...
...
~~~

<br/>
## Other data interfaces: how to use singlefile {% verbatim %}{#other}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _http://archive.routeviews.org/bgpdata/2015.10/UPDATES/updates.20151016.1630.bz2_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Fri, 16 Oct 2015 16:30:00 UTC_ -  _Fri, 16 Oct 2015 16:42:35 UTC_

~~~

$ bgpreader -d singlefile -o upd-file=http://archive.routeviews.org/bgpdata/2015.10/UPDATES/updates.20151016.1630.bz2 -w 1445013000,1445013755
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||13030|213.144.128.203|212.22.66.0/24|213.144.128.203|13030 12389 12389 12389 12389 12389 12389 41938 8359 50618 35189 201432|201432|13030:1 13030:3 13030:50000 13030:51202 13030:7179||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3130|147.28.7.2|76.191.107.0/24|147.28.7.2|3130 11404 22059|22059|3130:380||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3130|147.28.7.2|64.34.125.0/24|147.28.7.2|3130 2914 7922 11404 22059|22059|2914:420 2914:1008 2914:2000 2914:3000 3130:380||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|185.37.192.0/23|85.114.0.217|8492 21011 34251 203957|203957|8492:1201 8492:1602||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3549|208.51.134.246|185.37.192.0/23|208.51.134.246|3549 3257 21011 34251 203957|203957|3549:2203 3549:2623 3549:30840 3549:31250||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|185.37.192.0/23|85.114.0.217|8492 21011 34251 203957|203957|8492:1306 8492:1601 50384:3901 50384:4001||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|78.106.205.0/24|85.114.0.217|8492 20485 3356 6762 3216 8402|8402|8492:1102 8492:1601 15774:20607 20485:20607||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|78.106.205.0/24|85.114.0.217|8492 20485 3356 6762 3216 8402|8402|8492:1307 8492:1601 15774:20607 20485:20607 25478:3000 25478:3005||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3561|206.24.210.80|185.37.192.0/23|206.24.210.80|3561 3257 21011 34251 203957|203957|||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||1668|66.185.128.1|185.37.192.0/23|66.185.128.1|1668 3257 21011 34251 203957|203957|||174 202140|202140|||
...
~~~

Commit message:

update bgpreader tutorial for live-streams

src/CAIDA/BGPStreamWeb/HomepageBundle/Resources/content/docs/tutorials/bgpreader.md, after:

BGPReader Tutorial
==================

BGPReader is a command-line tool (_bgpreader_) that is installed as part of the
[libBGPStream]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'install', 'subpage': 'bgpstream'})}})
package.
See the
[BGPReader documentation]({{ path('caida_bgpstream_web_homepage_docs', {'page': 'tools', 'subpage': 'bgpreader'})}})
for detailed usage information.

The most commonly used command-line options are:
~~~
bgpreader -w <start>[,<stop>] [-p <project>] [-t <type>] [-c <collector>] [-T <resource-type>] [-m]
~~~

<br>

Below we provide the following tutorials:

* [Replace bgpdump with bgpreader](#dump2reader)
* [1 second of Route Views Linx updates using the bgpdump format](#sample1sec)
* [BGP Stream elems observed by RIS collectors updates in 2 minutes](#sample2min)
* [BGP Stream elems with filters](#elemfilters)
* [RRC00 in real-time](#samplert)
* [BGPStream with Cache](#cache)
* [Realtime Streams from RouteViews and RIS](#live-streams)
* [A day of RIS RRC04 and RRC05 BGP records](#sampleday)
* [Other data interfaces: how to use singlefile](#other)


<br>

## Replace bgpdump with bgpreader  ##  {% verbatim %}{#dump2reader}{% endverbatim %}

BGPReader can output data in the same format as BGPdump (using the `-m` option).
In this way, bgpreader can be used as a drop-in replacement for bgpdump in some
cases.

{# AK removed second collector since bgpdump format doesn't support multiple collectors #}

Suppose you want to process all the BGP information associated with
BGP records  generated by _RIS RRC04_
in the _20_ minute time interval:  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 15:50:00
UTC_ to  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 16:10:00 UTC_.

In this example, when using _bgpdump_ the user must download each dump file
within the time interval desired (6 files). A hypothetical processing script,
_my_script.pl_ receives an unsorted flow of data, also, it also implements
some filter in order to ignore the data that are outside the desired interval.

~~~
$ cd raw-data
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/bview.20151010.1600.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1610.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1605.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1600.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1555.gz
$ wget http://data.ris.ripe.net/rrc04/2015.10/updates.20151010.1550.gz
$ cd ..
$ find ./raw-data/ -type f | xargs -n 1 | bgpdump -m  | perl my_script.pl
~~~

<br>

With _bgpreader_ the same operation is accomplished with a single
command. The processing script, _my_script.pl_ receives a sorted
flow of data that contains only the information associated with the
desired time interval. 

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444492200,1444493400 -c rrc04  -m | perl my_script.pl
~~~

<br>

## 1 second of Route Views Linx updates using the bgpdump format {% verbatim %}{#sample1sec}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs (using the bgpdump `-m` format) the BGPStream
elems contained in the BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _Updates dumps_ generated by the _Route Views
   LINX collector_
 * their timestamp is exactly  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 17:34:02 UTC_ 


~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444498442,1444498442 -c route-views.linx -m
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.224.175|13030|46.219.122.0/24|13030 5580 21011 31148 31148 31148|IGP|195.66.224.175|0|1|65123:276 65123:2000 65123:2002 65123:10016 13030:1 13030:7208 13030:50000 13030:51107|AG|31148 94.76.105.10|
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|209.212.8.0/24
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|205.151.210.0/23
...
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.236.175|13030|118.193.51.0/24|13030 2828 10026 17444 17444 133115|IGP|195.66.236.175|0|1|13030:2 13030:2828 13030:51903 13030:7215|NAG||
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.236.175|13030|177.154.84.0/22|13030 12989 28640 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262949|IGP|195.66.236.175|0|1|13030:1 13030:3 13030:50000 13030:51502 13030:7209|NAG||
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.236.175|13030|177.154.80.0/22|13030 12989 28640 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262401 262949|IGP|195.66.236.175|0|1|13030:1 13030:3 13030:50000 13030:51502 13030:7209|NAG||
~~~

<br>

The above command outputs 114 announcements, and 11 withdrawals as observed by
14 unique peer ASns.

<br>

## BGP Stream elems observed by RIS collectors updates in 2 minutes {% verbatim %}{#sample2min}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _Updates dumps_ generated by _RIS collectors_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 17:34:00 UTC_ -  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 17:36:00 UTC_

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444498440,1444498560 -p ris -t updates
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||7018|12.0.1.63|43.224.84.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 1299 15412 9304 132167|132167|7018:5000 7018:38000||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||7018|12.0.1.63|43.224.85.0/24|12.0.1.63|7018 1299 15412 9304 132167|132167|7018:5000 7018:38000||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||8758|2001:8e0:0:ffff::9|2801:80:e90::/48|2001:8e0:0:ffff::9|8758 8758 6939 3549 18881 264583|264583|8758:200 8758:301||
...
U|W|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||50300|2a00:1c10:10::8|2801:80:e90::/48||||||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||57821|2001:67c:26f4::1|2801:80:e90::/48|2001:67c:26f4::1|57821 6939 3549 18881 264583|264583|||
U|A|1444498440.000000|ris|rrc00|||1836|146.228.1.3|177.154.80.0/22|146.228.1.3|1836 12989 52840 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949 262949|262949|1836:120 1836:3100 1836:3110||
~~~

<br>

The above command outputs 181,118 announcements, 151 state messages,
and 7,882 withdrawals as observed by 13 collectors (and 209 unique
peer ASns).


<br>

## BGP Stream elems with filters {% verbatim %}{#elemfilters}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _Updates dumps_ generated by _rrc06_ or _route-views.jinx_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Wed, 01 Apr 2015 00:07:27
 UTC_ -  _Wed, 01 Apr 2015 00:07:54 UTC_
 * the peer ASn is either _25152_ or _37105_
 * if the message is an announcement, then 
   * the announced prefix  is equal or a more specific of
   _2620:110:9004::/40_, _154.73.128.0/17_, or _202.70.88.0/21_
   * at least one community matches one of the following filters _2914:*_
     (the ASn field is equal to 2914), or _*:300_ (the value field is
     equal to 300).


~~~
$ bgpreader  -t updates -c rrc06 -c route-views.jinx -w1427846847,1427846874 -j 25152 -j 37105 -k 2620:110:9004::/40 -k 154.73.128.0/17 -k 202.70.88.0/21 -y 2914:* -y *:300
U|A|1427846850.000000|ris|rrc06|||25152|202.249.2.185|202.70.88.0/21|202.249.2.185|25152 2914 15412 9304 23752|23752|2914:410 2914:1408 2914:2401 2914:3400||
U|A|1427846860.000000|ris|rrc06|||25152|202.249.2.185|202.70.88.0/21|202.249.2.185|25152 2914 15412 9304 23752|23752|2914:410 2914:1408 2914:2401 2914:3400||
U|A|1427846871.000000|ris|rrc06|||25152|2001:200:0:fe00::6249:0|2620:110:9004::/48|2001:200:0:fe00::6249:0|25152 2914 3356 13620|13620|2914:420 2914:1001 2914:2000 2914:3000||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.136.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.137.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.138.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
U|A|1427846874.000000|routeviews|route-views.jinx|||37105|196.223.14.46|154.73.139.0/24|196.223.14.84|37105 37549|37549|37105:300||
~~~

<br>


## RRC00 in real-time {% verbatim %}{#samplert}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _RIBs_ and _ Updates dumps_ generated by the _RIS RRC00 collector_
 * their timestamp is greater or equal to _Sat, 15 Oct 2015 17:12:00 UTC_ 

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444929120 -c rrc00 
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|1836|2a01:2a8::3|2c0f:fe90::/32|2a01:2a8::3|1836 174 6453 30844 37105 37105 37105 36943|36943|1836:110 1836:6000 1836:6031||
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|1836|2a01:2a8::3|2c0f:fe90::/32|2a01:2a8::3|1836 6939 30844 37105 37105 37105 36943|36943|1836:3200 1836:3210||
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|1836|146.228.1.3|168.128.104.0/21|146.228.1.3|1836 3356 2914 44568 44568|44568|1836:110 1836:6000 1836:6001 2914:410 2914:1203 2914:2201 2914:3200 3356:2 3356:22 3356:86 3356:502 3356:666 3356:2066||
U|A|1444929120|ris|rrc00|8758|212.25.27.44|62.112.24.0/21|212.25.27.44|8758 8220 47377|47377|8220:65080 8220:65401 8758:110 8758:300||
...
~~~

<br>

## BGPStream with Local Cache {% verbatim %}{#cache}{% endverbatim %}

BGPStream version 2 added support for local caching. Users can provide a cache directory to BGPStream,
and BGPStream will use the directory to save resources used in the query.
In BGPReader, you can enable cache feature by specifying a cache directory using
`-o cache-dir=DIRECTORY` option.

The following command put cached files to `/tmp/cache-test/` for a query of updates:
```
$ bgpreader -w 1444498442,1444498442 -c route-views.linx -m -o cache-dir=/tmp/cache-test
BGP4MP|1444498442|A|195.66.224.175|13030|46.219.122.0/24|13030 5580 21011 31148 31148 31148|IGP|195.66.224.175|0|1|65123:276 65123:2000 65123:2002 65123:10016 13030:1 13030:7208 13030:50000 13030:51107|AG|31148 94.76.105.10|
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|209.212.8.0/24
BGP4MP|1444498442|W|195.66.224.138|2914|205.151.210.0/23
...
```
This command will cache the following files at `/tmp/cache-test`:
```
$ ls -l /tmp/cache-test
total 6144
drwxr-xr-x   3 USER  GROUP       96 Oct 18 12:51 ./
drwxrwxrwt  33 root  GROUP     1056 Oct 18 12:51 ../
-rw-r--r--   1 USER  GROUP  2466076 Oct 18 12:51 routeviews.route-views.linx.updates.1444498200.900.cache
```

The next time an query using the same resource will directly use the locally cached files instead of
re-downloading from remote locations.

<br>

{#
<br>
## A day of RIS RRC04 and RRC05 BGP records {% verbatim %}{#sampleday}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs information about the BGPStream records that
comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _RIBs_ and _ Updates dumps_ generated by
   the _RIS RRC04_ and _RIS RRC05 collectors_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 00:00:00  UTC_ -  _Sat, 10 Oct 2015 23:59:59 UTC_

~~~
$ bgpreader -w 1444435200,1444521599 -c rrc04 -c rrc05 -r
U|E|1444434900|ris|rrc05|F|1444434900
R|B|1444435200|ris|rrc05|V|1444435200
R|B|1444435200|ris|rrc04|V|1444435200
R|M|1444435200|ris|rrc05|V|1444435200
...
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
U|M|1444521599|ris|rrc04|V|1444521300
~~~
<br>

The above command outputs information about 3,524,048 BGPStream
records of type rib and 4,384,306 BGPStream records of type update.
#}

<br/>
## Realtime Live Streams from RouteViews and RIPE RIS {% verbatim %}{#live-streams}{% endverbatim %}

Both RouteViews and RIPE NCC serves realtime live stream data to the public.
RouteViews provides a BMP livestream from many of its peers, and RIPE RIS provides
[RIS Live](https://ris-live.ripe.net/). 
In BGPStream version 2, we added support for both stream sources. 

To access the streams data, user just need to set project (`-p`) to `routeviews-stream` for RouteViews BMP stream or 
`ris-live` for RIS Live stream.

The following command will start a real-time live stream from RouteViews BMP stream.
~~~
$ bgpreader -p routeviews-stream
WARN: No time window specified, defaulting to live mode
U|A|1602281859.663705|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|114.5.9.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 6453 4761|4761|||
U|A|1602281859.663713|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|64.68.236.0/22|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3356 13904 13904 13904 13904 13904 13904|13904|||
U|A|1602281860.068754|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|64.68.236.0/22|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3356 13904|13904|||
U|A|1602281860.077008|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|184.27.202.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
U|A|1602281860.077026|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|104.77.0.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
U|A|1602281860.077031|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|204.93.46.0/23|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
U|A|1602281860.077036|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|23.10.241.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
U|A|1602281860.077041|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|173.223.54.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
U|A|1602281860.077045|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|104.77.131.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
U|A|1602281860.077051|routeviews-stream|is-ah-bmp1|saopaulo2|200.160.6.203|52873|187.16.220.216|184.51.121.0/24|187.16.220.216|6447 52873 12956 3257|3257|||
...
~~~

The following command will start a real-time live stream from RIS Live.
~~~
$ bgpreader -p ris-live
WARN: No time window specified, defaulting to live mode
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||28186|187.16.219.51|209.177.171.0/24|187.16.219.51|28186 3549 3356 1299 18465|18465|||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||28186|2001:12f8::219:51|2c0f:fe30::/32|2001:12f8::219:51|28186 30844 37006|37006|||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|187.16.216.121|185.26.216.0/23|187.16.216.121|42473 16735 3257 28917 48858 39785 39785|39785|16735:3 16735:6101 47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|2001:12f8::121|2404:5780:3::/48|2001:12f8::121|42473 16735 6939 2914 20473 9558|9558|47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|187.16.216.121|185.26.216.0/23|187.16.216.121|42473 16735 1299 48858 39785 39785|39785|16735:3 16735:6101 47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.660000|ris-live|rrc15|||42473|187.16.216.121|209.177.171.0/24|187.16.216.121|42473 16735 174 1299 18465|18465|16735:3 16735:6101 47147:1502 47147:2002 47147:2104 47147:2300 47147:2405 47147:2604||
U|A|1569948264.680000|ris-live|rrc07|||6667|194.68.123.136|177.136.12.0/24|194.68.123.136|6667 3491 7738 52871|52871|6667:3001 6667:4004 6667:5209||
U|A|1569948264.680000|ris-live|rrc07|||6667|2001:7f8:d:ff::136|2404:5780:3::/48|2001:7f8:d:ff::136|6667 174 20473 9558|9558|174:21001 174:22013 6667:3004 6667:4005 6667:5009 6667:6000||
U|A|1569948264.680000|ris-live|rrc07|||6667|194.68.123.136|185.137.56.0/22|194.68.123.136|6667 29119|29119|6667:3001 6667:4004 6667:5209||
...
~~~

<br/>
## Other data interfaces: how to use singlefile {% verbatim %}{#other}{% endverbatim %}

The following command outputs the BGPStream elems contained in the
BGPStream records that comply with the following filters:

 * are contained in _http://archive.routeviews.org/bgpdata/2015.10/UPDATES/updates.20151016.1630.bz2_
 * their timestamp is in the interval _Fri, 16 Oct 2015 16:30:00 UTC_ -  _Fri, 16 Oct 2015 16:42:35 UTC_

~~~

$ bgpreader -d singlefile -o upd-file=http://archive.routeviews.org/bgpdata/2015.10/UPDATES/updates.20151016.1630.bz2 -w 1445013000,1445013755
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||13030|213.144.128.203|212.22.66.0/24|213.144.128.203|13030 12389 12389 12389 12389 12389 12389 41938 8359 50618 35189 201432|201432|13030:1 13030:3 13030:50000 13030:51202 13030:7179||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3130|147.28.7.2|76.191.107.0/24|147.28.7.2|3130 11404 22059|22059|3130:380||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3130|147.28.7.2|64.34.125.0/24|147.28.7.2|3130 2914 7922 11404 22059|22059|2914:420 2914:1008 2914:2000 2914:3000 3130:380||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|185.37.192.0/23|85.114.0.217|8492 21011 34251 203957|203957|8492:1201 8492:1602||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3549|208.51.134.246|185.37.192.0/23|208.51.134.246|3549 3257 21011 34251 203957|203957|3549:2203 3549:2623 3549:30840 3549:31250||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|185.37.192.0/23|85.114.0.217|8492 21011 34251 203957|203957|8492:1306 8492:1601 50384:3901 50384:4001||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|78.106.205.0/24|85.114.0.217|8492 20485 3356 6762 3216 8402|8402|8492:1102 8492:1601 15774:20607 20485:20607||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||8492|85.114.0.217|78.106.205.0/24|85.114.0.217|8492 20485 3356 6762 3216 8402|8402|8492:1307 8492:1601 15774:20607 20485:20607 25478:3000 25478:3005||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||3561|206.24.210.80|185.37.192.0/23|206.24.210.80|3561 3257 21011 34251 203957|203957|||
U|A|1445013000.000000|singlefile|singlefile|||1668|66.185.128.1|185.37.192.0/23|66.185.128.1|1668 3257 21011 34251 203957|203957|||174 202140|202140|||
...
~~~
